Superstore Report

Description:
The task for this project was to use Tableau to create visualizations and write conclusions that answered each of the questions added to this document below 
The link to the Tableau project which shows each visualization is found just below this line

Tableau Link: https://public.tableau.com/views/Project_17132314013500/ProfitandReturnbySub-Category?:language=en-US&publish=yes&:sid=&:display_count=n&:origin=viz_share_link
\
Part 1: Profits & losses
First, we'll try to identify the important centers of profit and loss for the superstore.

1. Among the pairs of dimensions (e.g., subcategory + region, or shipping mode + product ID) which are the two: 
question 1.1 
biggest profit centers and two biggest loss-makers? Justify your conclusion with a visualization.
question 1.2 
Which products should the superstore stop selling? Justify your conclusion with a visualization.
question 1.3 
Which product subcategories should the store focus on and which should they stop selling? Choose 3 of each.

1.1 answer
In the Profit and Loss chart I show that the sub-category and region dimensions show the profits for each sub-category given their region. These two dimensions clearly show which sub-groups are loss centers, like binders in the Center region and Tables in all regions. It also shows where the company is very profitable, like with copiers in the West and Phones in the South. The chart is also useful in showcasing how profitable each region is, overall. The West has very few subcategories that are negative, while Central has the most loss out of all of the regions. In the rest of this analysis it was determined that the loss caused by the binder subcategory in the Central region, came from the sale of a particular kind of binder, which is discussed in the next part.\

1.2 answer 
The Worst Selling products visualization shows a bar chart of the product IDs and Product Names of the three worst selling products. The worst selling product was a binder named the GBC DocuBind P400 Electric Binding System at $-20,388. The Second worst selling product was the Cubby CubeX 3D Printer Double Head Print which sold for $-8,880. The third worst selling product was the Bush Advantage Collection Racetrack Conference Table which lost $5,192. All three of these products should get discontinued by the company and the fact that not selling the DocuBind binder would have increased the overall profits of the binder subcategory, the same goes for the CubeX Printer. As described in the next question, all tables should stop getting sold by the company.\

1.3 answer 
On the Worst Selling Sub-Categories visualization, it shows the three worst selling products not accounting for regional, state, or any other differences. The three worst selling products are on the left side of the bar chart and colored red, because they were all negative. The superstore should stop selling Tables because the company lost $23,067 selling tables. The next worse selling product is bookcases which lost the company $3,655. The last subcategory which should stop getting sold is supplies, which lost the company $923. \

Part 2: Advertising
The superstore wants to know if advertising would be worth it. Advertising works over time and geography, and your average profit per unit sold should be high enough to justify it.

question 2.1 
Identify the 3 best combinations of states and month of the year to advertise in. Make a visualization of the average profit for each month of the year for those 3 states and argue how much you would be willing to pay in advertising for those states in those months.
You should be most willing to pay for advertisements based on the return on ad spend ratio. Let's say you should be willing to spend 1/5 of profits on advertising for this exercise.

answer 2.1 
In the Profit per State by Month visualization, it shows which three months are the most profitable for three states. The first is New York which brought in $44,397 in profits during the month of September. Washington was the second highest grossing state with $23,460 during the month of March. The last state is California which brought in $21,207 in profit during the month of December. These three states during their respective months should get targeted by advertising due to their high profits. Using the return on ad spend ratio at .20% of profit; $8,879.40 of advertising should get spent in New York during the month of September, $4,241.40 should get spent in California during the month of December, and $4692 should get spent in Washington during the month of March\


Part 3: Returned items
In the last part, we’ll use the Returns table to see if some products have abnormal rates of being returned to the store.

question 3
Make the Returned field into a calculated field where the null values are 0 and the Yes values are 1.
Use this new field to make a visualization for each of the following questions: 

question 3.1 
Which products have the highest return rate? 

question 3.2  
Which customers have the highest return rate?
In a separate sheet, make a visualization of the average profit against the average return rate on a dimension of your choice (state, shipping mode, product type, etc.). Present a visual argument why the superstore should do away with or keep doing business on the basis of this dimension.

answer 3.1 
The Product Return Rate visualization shows which products have the highest rate of return, out of the products that were returned. The highest return rate goes to the Bush Saratoga 5-Shelf Bookcase, Hanover Cherry, which had a 100% rate of return. But it should be noted that only three of the bookcases were sold, as shown on the Product Returns by Number bar chart, which is easily seen by using the filter in the top right corner and searching for the name of the bookcase in the search bar. The next highest return rate was the Global Leather Task Chair, Black, which had a return rate of 76.92% and 20 of the units were returned, as shown on the product returns by number chart. Certain paper products had some of the highest rates of return, which can easily be seen on the Product Return Rate bar chart by deselecting all of the options and then checking paper in the subcategory filter on the top right, IBM Multi-Purpose Copy Paper, 8 1/2x11 and three different Xerox types; 1880, 1942, and 194 were all in the overall highest rates of return. Each of the Xerox types of paper only had 8 units returned and the IBM paper had 13 units returned.\

answer 3.2 
Shown in the Customer Return Rate visual, Ronald Murray had the highest return rate by far at 66%. A distant second is Barry Franz with 47% of items returned and third is Sandra Glassco with 45.54% returned. The next few leaders in return rate are all around the same range between 44 and 40% and their names in order are; Greg Matthias, Stefania Perrino, Andy Yotov, Maribeth Yedweb, Hilary Holden, Carei Sayre, and Greg Hansen. The rest of the customers are all below 40% with 18 returning between 30% and 37% of units.\
\
answer 3.3 
The Profit and Return by Subcategory visual shows that the Tables subcategory has negative profits, but average rates of return. Tables fared the worst at -$57 average profit and a 9% return rate, and the company should definitely stop selling them, because they have shown to be the biggest holes in profit across the board. Copiers had the same rate of return as tables, but had the best profits out of all of the other subcategories at around $900 average profit. Copiers should be a larger focus moving forward as they are by far the most successful product with an average return rate. To make the difference between the bottom and average subcategories clearer a subcategory filter was added, to see the Copiers in respect to the other subcategories just check the copiers box on the right hand side.\


