

Final Project Conclusion\
\
https://public.tableau.com/views/FinalDash_17164117267250/Dashboard1?:language=en-US&publish=yes&:sid=&:display_count=n&:origin=viz_share_link 
\
In my analysis I found that revenue was irrelevant of review rating. One of the highest grossing stores was rated a 2.8 and the highest grossing stores were rated 3.8, which was Dominoes, and 3.6 which was Happy Brew Cafe.  Half of the top 20 restaurants didn\'92t have any review score and, as shown on the Highest Grossing Restaurants by Review Score graph by clicking on one of the bubbles, only three of the highest grossing restaurants had 100 or more reviews. Also, Restaurants like Janta Snacks had no reviews so even though it was the highest grossing restaurant, as shown on the TOP 20 Revenue graph, there were no reviews to compare it to the other restaurants. \
\
I found that all of the highest grossing restaurants only had data reported for one year, so instead of putting a line graph like I originally intended I put a colored chart to show when the orders were reported for each year. I also couldn\'92t isolate restaurant revenues by the food name, so that is also missing from this report. I would have added a graph that showed the best grossing food products but those were spread out among many restaurants and didn\'92t correspond with my original premise of finding \'93hot ticket\'94 items that the highest grossing restaurants could use for advertising.\
\
I think the company should focus on marketing Janta Snacks, Dominoes, Happy Brew Cafe, and Kouzina Cafe, because they were the highest restaurants. The company should also look into the reviews for Janta Snacks, it\'92s surprising that there are no reviews for such a high grossing restaurant. The company should look at the reviews for the restaurants that do have reviews like Happy Brew and see if they can improve on whatever issues the customers have with them to increase revenue.\
\
}
